---
layout: single
read_time: true
title:  "Georgia Tech OMSCS Intro and My First Course (CS-6262)"
date:   2020-11-13
categories: OMSCS
---
Computer Science had always interested me. However, it wasn't available at the school I chose to pursue my bachelor degree. Thankfully I discovered the [Georgia Tech
Online Master of Science: Computer Science (OMSCS) program][omscs]. The Computing Systems specialization is what interested me the most. I decided to apply after about 
1 year of consideration. To my delight, I recieved an acceptance notification and that is when I realized I had a long road ahead of me! As I near the end of my first 
semester, I figured it might be a great time to review the first course. This course more or less lines up with my current skillset which allowed me to get a feel for 
the program.

**Enter CS-6262 Network Security**

This course is mostly project based with 10 quizzes(10% of your grade), 5 projects(80% of your grade), and 1 final exam(10% of your grade). 

The quizzes are fairly easy as they are based on slides created by Professor Lee and a few research papers. These cover topics such as attack types, malware analysis, 
machine learning, and more!

The projects are where the fun happens. These include penetration testing, cross site scripting, malware analysis, writing Snort rules to detect various types of 
traffic, and machine learning for security. My favorite so far (excluding machine learning for security) was writing Snort rules as I had never had a reason to use Snort. This allowed me to further my skills in regard to traffic analysis and get creative with detection parameters.

So far, I think this course is an excellent starter if you have information security experience!

Expect an update to this post as I have yet to finish the machine learning project (released a week ago) and our final exam doesn't open until next week.

[omscs]: https://omscs.gatech.edu/
